Reflection: HW2 
Most of the frustration I encountered within this assignment was at the installation level. 
I’m currently using Windows, so I’m not unaccustomed to running into support issues. 
Installing Windows Subsystem for Linux was helpful, as I was then able to install FairSeq, 
and later JiWER (for calculating word error rate). 

Prepping the data for preprocessing was fairly easy, though I did run into an error once I 
moved on to training: my .g and .p files were of mismatched lengths. This yielded an assertion
error when I ran fairseq-train. For two out of three of the file pairs, the .g file was one line 
longer than the .p file; in the remaining case, the .p file was one line longer than the .g file. 
In each of the abbreviated files, for whatever reason, the first line had gotten lopped off. 
Because I was able to visually determine this was the only problem with the files, in the 
interest of expediency,  I quickly went in and manually corrected them by adding the respective 
missing line. 

At this point, I ran fairseq-train, and the command appeared to run without any errors. After about 
an hour of waiting, though, I began to question the parameters I had fed the terminal. I re-reviewed 
the flags, and found that the issue was that I had entered the flags --encoder-layers and --decoder-layers 
rather than --encoder-hidden-size and --decoder-hidden-size. In effect, the number of layers I was assigning 
it was too big for it to run efficiently. Changing the flags finally allowed my model to train. 

The final major issue I had was when I ran the command fairseq-generate. A predictions.txt file appeared 
as expected, but the hypothesis output was not great. No hypothesis exceeded five phonemes in length, 
regardless of the length of the corresponding target pronunciation. After sitting around and feeling 
stressed out about it for a little while, I simply decided to delete all prior data and run fairseq-preprocess, 
fairseq-train, and fairseq-generate again. This yielded much nicer, fully comprehensible hypotheses.  
